[Music]
eleven easy tips that will save you in
critical situations there's hardly
anyone who'd want to find themselves in
a dark alley with a strange person
chasing them or get a flat tire in the
middle of nowhere what would you do if
the person chasing you grabbed you by
force and took you to their car what if
you didn't have a spare tire and the
nearest service station is actually many
miles away
that's why knowing some useful pieces of
advice for different life situations can
be really helpful in today's video
we've prepared several ideas that can
help you get out of a dangerous
situation grab your pen and paper and
take some notes or better yet be sure to
hit the subscribe button and turn on the
little notification bell now you won't
miss any of the important updates coming
daily from the bright side of life let's
begin with number 1 if somebody is
trying to take you away by force lose
some personal belongings on the spot if
you are being pushed into a car try to
accidentally drop as many personal
belongings as possible but remember that
it's better to keep your cell phone with
you this could help the police find you
faster if you're lucky and extremely
strong and agile you might be able to
struggle free and run away from your
kidnapper well unless they have a gun or
someone is with them make your
resistance more forceful while dropping
personal items so that you can leave
evidence right at the spot where you
were taken number two if you're in an
elevator with a criminal press the
buttons for every floor this will give
you a chance to run away or signal
someone it can also baffle the criminal
and make you look like a lunatic kidding
aside this trick can help you get away
from a criminal if you feel like you're
being followed or something is off when
you're inside the elevator the downside
of this is that if there are several
other people with you in the elevator
they might think you're pulling a prank
use this tip wisely and only when
truly needed number three how to
understand when a storm is coming do you
want to know if it's a perfect day for a
stroll or visit to the beach you don't
have to open a weather app on your phone
because you can predict it yourself with
a cup of coffee or any beverage how
shake any drink and pour it into a glass
if the bubbles spread to the sides the
weather will be good for the next 12
hours if the bubbles are located in the
center
stormy weather is coming in 12 hours
whoa ho this happens due to the effect
of atmospheric pressure on air bubbles
high pressure dispels them to the edges
which means you can expect sunny weather
when the pressure is low the bubbles
stay in their initial place which means
that the weather is going to be gloomy
and rainy number 4 if you get a flat
tire stuff it with grass if you suddenly
get a flat tire in the middle of nowhere
make small holes in the sides of the
tire and stuff it with grass or thatch
this task is easier to execute with the
help of some tools it may also take a
while to do this depending on how much
air the tire has lost but you'll be able
to get to the nearest gas station of
course after you get to a service
station you'll have to throw the tire
away but at least this method will help
you get home number 5 stay focused
during the planes takeoff and landing
stay attentive during the first three
minutes of takeoff and the last three
minutes of landing don't get distracted
according to statistics sixty-one
percent of all accidents in the air
occur in these time periods that's why
your readiness to act in these moments
can turn out to be the key to your
survival it's only for a few minutes so
bear with it
[Music]
number six put out a fire with baking
soda if your kitchen stove or the oil in
your frying pan catches fire do not try
to extinguish them with water why water
repels grease and oil and the fire can
spread when you splatter it with water
instead pour a box of baking soda on to
the burning area when interacting with
an open fire
carbon dioxide will start to be produced
and the fire will be put out remember
that this method is only good for
extinguishing small fires because it
requires a large amount of baking soda
call 911 immediately after doing this to
ensure your safety
number seven how to quickly calm down
when panicking saying don't panic to
yourself or someone else is the worst
advice ever so what should you do
instead panic is one of the main factors
that decreases your chances of survival
in a dangerous situation therefore it's
important to stay calm and follow simple
actions that will help stabilize
yourself ground yourself name the
objects around you touch the ground
under your feet or count trees or any
other objects you see these actions will
help you get back into the here and now
breathe slowly inhale and exhale through
your nose try to breathe with your belly
not your chest concentrate on a long
exhale say everything you are feeling
aloud for example I don't know what to
do my hands and knees are trembling my
heart is beating very quickly define the
actions you're going to take to rescue
yourself
[Music]
number eight use your phone as a
reflector when you cross a road in the
dark you can use your cell phone or
camera as a light reflector when
crossing a poorly lit road in the dark
it will help drivers see you on the road
and react in time
don't rely on running or crossing
cautiously pull out your phone and walk
it and make sure the bright screen is
pointed at any oncoming vehicles to
signal the drivers number nine smell
camphor to remove signs of tunnel vision
if you're going to be driving for more
than six hours you can get tunnel vision
while on the road this is when your
attention is focused on the road and
objects located right in front of the
car at the same time you stop noticing
things happening at the sides and
therefore you could miss a pedestrian to
remove eye tension take a fabric pouch
containing powder camphor crystals or a
bottle of camphor oil with you when you
feel tired bring the pouch or bottle
close to your nose and take a deep
breath you will feel better and become
more attentive however use this in
moderation and only in situations like
this because it's smell is somewhat
addictive
number ten start blowing or rubbing your
nose to distract the predator if you are
being threatening to act like a
hysterical victim cry sniff blow or wipe
your nose even on your sleeve you can
also think of some other less disgusting
actions it's likely that the criminal
will look away and this will give you a
chance to run away by the way police
officers use this trick when they want
to check if someone is stalking them if
you start blowing your nose the person
chasing you will look aside to be sure
repeat this action after a couple of
minutes this will not only distract them
but also draw attention to you
especially from people around you number
11 make water safe after a natural
disaster by adding drops of bleach this
tip is from the US Center for Disease
Control and Prevention water may be
unsafe to use after a natural disaster
like a hurricane blizzard or earthquake
purify your tap water with bleach while
you wait for the local authorities to
announce that the water is safe to use
for clear tap water add 1/8 of a
teaspoon or 8 drops of unscented liquid
bleach to one gallon or 16 cups of water
mix thoroughly and wait 30 minutes or an
hour to be sure before drinking it if
the tap water has a cloudy appearance
use 1/4 teaspoon or 16 drops of
unscented liquid bleach use this tip
with extreme caution
are you aware of any other methods that
can protect you and your loved ones
please tell us about them in the
comments don't forget to click the like
button and share this video with your
family and friends always stay tuned and
join us on the bright side of life